.. _9.3.13-release:

9.3.13
------

*June 24th, 2021.*

* Modifying DHCP scope options on split and failover scopes  in the Web Application will no longer result in the option being set to a blank value.

* Custom properties for DNS records in the Web Application are saved as expected.

* Azure DNS no longer returns an empty list of DNS zone erroneously, and trigger the system to remove all DNS zones.

* Fixed the incorrect PTR record issue that prevented managing DHCP failover scopes when using anycast.

* Fixed a permission issue and users that do not have access to the Reporting module can no longer download reports.

* Adding a TXT record to Akamai containing more than 255 characters no longer fails with an "invalid json body" error.

* Improved documentation for the external authentication methods in the Men&Mice Web Service (MMWS).

* AD integrated zones are listed as expected when selecting a domain controller under the DNS services in the Web Application.

* Deleting a server using a combination of DHCP scopes in failover and a split scope configuration again works as expected.

* Fixed a permission issue in the Web Application for various system settings affecting non-admin users at login.

* Changing a CNAME to an A record no longer fails for AWS private zones.

* Discovery data for IP addresses is again updated accordingly with new data.

* Ping check on the DNS/DHCP appliance is working as expected.

* Fixed an issue preventing bulk deletion of DNS records in AWS.

* A history entry is properly registered when promoting a slave to a master zone.

* Disabled the ability for user to change passwords when logged in through a domain in Active directory.
